h1. IOC Service Documentation

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: Central entry page for the IOC Service documentation tree.\\
Source file: {code}docs/README.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-02-25 15:51:58Z
{info}

h2. Content

Comprehensive documentation for the IOC (Indicators of Compromise) Threat Feed Aggregation system.

---

h2. Quick Links

* 📖 *[API Documentation|api.md]* - REST endpoints, formats, and integration examples
* 🏗️ *[Architecture|architecture.md]* - System design and components
* ⚙️ *[Configuration|configuration.md]* - Environment variables and settings
* ⚡ *[Performance|performance.md]* - SLOs, benchmarking, degradation and runbook
* 🛠️ *[Runbook|runbook.md]* - Incident response and release gate procedures
* 🧭 *[M16 Finalization|m16-finalization.md]* - Go/no-go and closure checklist
* 📆 *[Maintenance Plan|maintenance-plan.md]* - 90-day operating cadence and KPI policy
* ✅ *[Contributing|../CONTRIBUTING.md]* - Quality gate and CI merge policy
* 🔌 *[Data Sources|data-sources.md]* - MISP, CrowdSec, MalwareBazaar, MWDB integration
* 💾 *[Database|database.md]* - Schema, indexes, and queries
* 💻 *[CLI Tool|cli.md]* - Manual ingestion commands
* 🌐 *[Web UI|web-ui.md]* - Browser interface guide
* 🔒 *[SSL/TLS|ssl.md]* - Certificate management

---

h2. Getting Started

h3. For Users

# *[QUICKSTART.md|../QUICKSTART.md]* - Get running in 5 minutes
# *[Configuration|configuration.md]* - Configure your deployment
# *[API Documentation|api.md]* - Start querying IOCs

h3. For Developers

# *[Architecture|architecture.md]* - Understand the system
# *[Database|database.md]* - Schema and data model
# *[Data Sources|data-sources.md]* - Add new integrations

h3. For Security Teams

# *[SECURITY_AUDIT_REPORT.md|../SECURITY_AUDIT_REPORT.md]* - Security analysis
# *[SECURITY.md|../SECURITY.md]* - Security policy
# *[API Documentation|api.md#security-headers]* - Security features

---

h2. Documentation Structure

h3. Core Documentation

| Document | Description | Audience |
|----------|-------------|----------|
| *[api.md|api.md]* | API endpoints, formats, examples | Users, Integrators |
| *[architecture.md|architecture.md]* | System design, data flow, scalability | Developers, Architects |
| *[configuration.md|configuration.md]* | Environment variables, examples | Ops, Admins |
| *[performance.md|performance.md]* | SLOs, benchmark harness, runbook | Ops, SRE, Developers |
| *[runbook.md|runbook.md]* | Incident response and rollback procedures | Ops, SRE |
| *[m16-finalization.md|m16-finalization.md]* | Final release decision and residual risks | Tech Leads, Ops |
| *[maintenance-plan.md|maintenance-plan.md]* | Post-release operating plan | Ops, SRE |

h3. Integration Documentation

| Document | Description | Audience |
|----------|-------------|----------|
| *[data-sources.md|data-sources.md]* | Source integrations, normalization | Developers, Threat Intel |
| *[database.md|database.md]* | Schema, indexes, queries | DBAs, Developers |
| *[cli.md|cli.md]* | Manual ingestion tool | Operators, Analysts |

h3. User Documentation

| Document | Description | Audience |
|----------|-------------|----------|
| *[web-ui.md|web-ui.md]* | Web interface guide | End Users |
| *[ssl.md|ssl.md]* | TLS certificate management | Ops, Admins |

---

h2. Key Features

h3. 🔍 Unified Search

Kibana-like query syntax with boolean operators:

{code:language=none}
type:ip AND confidence:>70 AND (tags:apt OR tags:malware)
{code}

h3. 🔗 IOC Correlation

Cross-source correlation endpoint:

{code:language=bash}
curl "https://localhost:7003/correlations?min_sources=2&type=domain"
{code}

h3. 📤 17 Export Formats

* *Basic:* TXT, CSV, JSON, XML
* *Firewalls:* FortiGate, Check Point, Palo Alto, F5
* *SIEMs:* Sentinel, Defender, ArcSight, Splunk, Elasticsearch

h3. 🔄 Auto-Update

Background worker fetches from MISP and CrowdSec every 10 minutes (configurable).

h3. 🔒 Security

* TLS 1.2+ with modern ciphers
* Rate limiting per endpoint
* Comprehensive security headers
* Audit logging
* IP tracking with proxy awareness

h3. ⚡ Performance

* PostgreSQL connection pooling
* Redis response caching (5 min TTL)
* Database-native exports
* GIN/B-tree indexes
* {{limit}}/{{offset}} pagination on view and export endpoints
* Optional NDJSON streaming for {{elasticsearch}} and {{cribl}} exports
* Global hard cap: {{REQUESTS_PER_SECOND_MAX}} (default 1,000,000 req/s)

---

h2. API Quick Reference

h3. Health & Monitoring

{code:language=bash}
curl https://localhost:7003/health
curl https://localhost:7003/metrics
{code}

h3. Search & View

{code:language=bash}
# HTML interface
curl https://localhost:7003/indicators

# With filters
curl "https://localhost:7003/indicators?type=ip&min_conf=80&tlp=AMBER"
{code}

h3. Export Formats

{code:language=bash}
# Plain text
curl https://localhost:7003/indicators/txt

# FortiGate blocklist
curl https://localhost:7003/indicators/fortigate

# Elasticsearch bulk
curl https://localhost:7003/indicators/elasticsearch

# Splunk HEC
curl https://localhost:7003/indicators/splunk
{code}

See *[API Documentation|api.md]* for full details.

---

h2. Configuration Quick Reference

h3. Required Variables

{code:language=bash}
SECRET_KEY=$(python -c 'import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))')
DATABASE_URL=postgresql+psycopg2://user:pass@postgres:5432/threatfeed
REDIS_URL=redis://:password@redis:6379/0
{code}

h3. Security (Production)

{code:language=bash}
ALLOWED_HOSTS=your-domain.com
TRUSTED_PROXY_COUNT=1
MISP_VERIFY_SSL=true
{code}

h3. Integrations

{code:language=bash}
# MISP
MISP_URL=https://misp.example.com
MISP_API_KEY=your-key

# CrowdSec
CROWDSEC_API_KEY=your-key
CROWDSEC_LISTS=list1,list2,list3
{code}

See *[Configuration|configuration.md]* for all variables.

---

h2. Architecture Overview

{code:language=none}
┌─────────────┐
│   Nginx     │ ← TLS termination, rate limiting
│  (Reverse   │
│   Proxy)    │
└──────┬──────┘
       │
┌──────▼──────────────────────────────┐
│      Flask Application              │
│  ┌────────┐  ┌────────┐  ┌────────┐│
│  │  API   │  │ Web UI │  │ Worker ││
│  └────────┘  └────────┘  └────────┘│
└──────┬──────────┬──────────┬────────┘
       │          │          │
   ┌───▼───┐  ┌──▼───┐  ┌──▼────┐
   │ PostgreSQL│ Redis│ │External│
   │ (Storage) │(Cache││Sources │
   └───────────┘└──────┘└────────┘
{code}

See *[Architecture|architecture.md]* for details.

---

h2. Data Flow

h3. Ingestion (Background Worker)

{code:language=none}
External API → Fetch → Normalize → Upsert → Update Stats
     ↓
  (MISP, CrowdSec)
{code}

h3. Query (API Request)

{code:language=none}
Request → Cache Check → Database Query → Format → Response
   ↓            ↓              ↓
Security    Hit/Miss      Parameterized SQL
Headers
{code}

See *[Architecture|architecture.md#data-flow]* for details.

---

h2. Database Schema

h3. Core Tables

* *ti.indicators* - IOC storage with provenance
* *ti.feed_stats* - Feed health and statistics
* *ti.audit_log* - API access logging

h3. Key Indexes

* B-tree on (source, source_ref, is_active)
* GIN on tags array
* GIN on metadata JSONB
* pg_trgm for wildcard search

See *[Database|database.md]* for schema details.

---

h2. Security

h3. Critical Security Fixes

The system has undergone comprehensive security audit:

* ✅ *SECRET_KEY enforcement* - Required, minimum 32 characters
* ✅ *MISP SSL verification* - Enabled by default
* ✅ *IP tracking security* - Proxy-aware with TRUSTED_PROXY_COUNT
* ✅ *Security headers* - CSP, HSTS, X-Frame-Options, etc.
* ✅ *Secure cookies* - HttpOnly, Secure, SameSite
* ✅ *Rate limiting* - All endpoints protected

See *[SECURITY_AUDIT_REPORT.md|../SECURITY_AUDIT_REPORT.md]* for full audit.

h3. Best Practices

# *Always use HTTPS* in production
# *Set strong SECRET_KEY* (32+ characters)
# *Enable MISP_VERIFY_SSL* (default: true)
# *Configure ALLOWED_HOSTS* for production
# *Set TRUSTED_PROXY_COUNT* if behind proxy
# *Use VPN/private network* for /metrics endpoint

---

h2. CLI Tool

Manual IOC ingestion from MalwareBazaar and MWDB:

{code:language=bash}
python -m app.cli fetch \
  --data-source bazaar \
  --tags TrickBot,Emotet \
  --since 2025-01-01 \
  --until 2025-01-31
{code}

See *[CLI Documentation|cli.md]* for full usage.

---

h2. Troubleshooting

h3. Common Issues

*SECRET_KEY not set:*
{code:language=none}
RuntimeError: SECURITY ERROR: SECRET_KEY environment variable must be set.
{code}
*Fix:* Generate with {{python -c 'import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))'}}

*Database connection failed:*
{code:language=none}
sqlalchemy.exc.OperationalError: could not connect to server
{code}
*Fix:* Check DATABASE_URL, ensure PostgreSQL is running

*Redis connection failed:*
{code:language=none}
redis.exceptions.ConnectionError
{code}
*Fix:* Check REDIS_URL, ensure Redis is running

See individual docs for more troubleshooting.

---

h2. Support & Contributing

h3. Getting Help

* 📚 *Documentation:* Start here!
* 🐛 *Issues:* Check logs: {{docker compose logs app}}
* 🔍 *Debugging:* Set {{LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG}}

h3. Development

{code:language=bash}
# Setup
git clone <repo>
cd ioc-service
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run tests
pytest tests/ -v

# Run app
export SECRET_KEY=$(python -c 'import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))')
python -m flask --app app.main run --debug
{code}

---

h2. Additional Resources

h3. In Repository

* *[README.md|../README.md]* - Project overview
* *[QUICKSTART.md|../QUICKSTART.md]* - Quick setup guide
* *[DEPLOYMENT.md|../DEPLOYMENT.md]* - Production deployment
* *[SECURITY.md|../SECURITY.md]* - Security policy
* *[SECURITY_AUDIT_REPORT.md|../SECURITY_AUDIT_REPORT.md]* - Security audit

h3. External

* *Flask:* https://flask.palletsprojects.com/
* *SQLAlchemy:* https://www.sqlalchemy.org/
* *PostgreSQL:* https://www.postgresql.org/docs/
* *Redis:* https://redis.io/docs/
* *MISP:* https://www.misp-project.org/

---

h2. Document Versions

| Document | Last Updated | Version |
|----------|--------------|---------|
| api.md | 2025-12-18 | 1.0 |
| architecture.md | 2025-12-18 | 1.0 |
| configuration.md | 2025-12-18 | 1.0 |
| data-sources.md | 2025-12-18 | 1.0 |
| database.md | 2025-12-18 | 1.0 |
| cli.md | 2025-12-18 | 1.0 |
| web-ui.md | 2025-12-18 | 1.0 |
| ssl.md | 2025-12-18 | 1.0 |

---

*Note:* This documentation reflects the state of the codebase after security audit and remediation (commit: {{claude/security-audit-kili-2Ah1l}}).
