h1. Deployment

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: Deployment process, prerequisites, and rollout guidance.\\
Source file: {code}DEPLOYMENT.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-03-02 17:29:40Z
{info}

h2. Content

Updated for release line {{1.1.x}} (2026-03-01).

h2. Quick Start

{code:language=bash}
# 1. Generate secrets
./scripts/generate-secrets.sh

# 2. Setup SSL
./scripts/setup-ssl.sh

# 3. Configure .env
vim .env  # Add MISP and CrowdSec credentials

# 4. Start services
docker compose up -d postgres redis
docker compose up -d app worker

# 5. Verify
curl -k https://localhost:7003/health
{code}

h2. Production Deployment

h3. Prerequisites
* Docker 24.0+
* 4GB RAM minimum
* Valid SSL certificate
* External IP/domain name

h3. Steps
# Clone repository
# Configure environment variables
# Setup SSL with Let's Encrypt
# Start services
# Configure firewall (allow 7003/tcp)
# Setup monitoring

h3. Monitoring
* Health: https://your-domain:7003/health
* Readiness: https://your-domain:7003/readyz
* Logs: docker compose logs -f
* Stats: https://your-domain:7003/api/stats
* Metrics: https://your-domain:7003/metrics (deploy behind VPN/internal network)

*Key Prometheus metrics for alerting:*

| Metric                | Alert condition                          |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------|
| {{sync_jobs_queued}}    | > 10 for > 5 min → worker may be stuck  |
| {{sync_jobs_running}}   | > 5 simultaneously → concurrency issue  |
| {{export_jobs_pending}} | > 20 for > 10 min → export backlog      |
| {{active_indicators}}   | Sudden drop → feed sync failure          |

See {{docs/api.md}} for the full list of exposed metrics.

h3. Backup
{code:language=bash}
# Backup database
docker compose exec postgres pg_dump -U threatfeed threatfeed > backup.sql

# Backup .env
cp .env .env.backup
{code}

h3. Updates
{code:language=bash}
git pull
docker compose build
docker compose up -d
{code}

{{app}} and {{worker}} execute database upgrade automatically on start ({{AUTO_MIGRATE_ON_START=true}} by default), so restarting with a newer image applies schema updates without manual migration commands.


---

h2. Troubleshooting

h3. 502 Bad Gateway

If Nginx returns 502, see the step-by-step guide:
[docs/troubleshooting/502-bad-gateway.md|docs/troubleshooting/502-bad-gateway.md]

Common causes: app not listening, wrong upstream port, SELinux policy, F5 monitor misconfiguration.
