h1. Operations

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: Operational practices and production support guidance.\\
Source file: {code}docs/runbook.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-03-02 17:29:40Z
{info}

h2. Content

Status: updated for {{1.1.x}} (2026-03-01).

h2. Scope

Operational playbook for the IOC service in production-like environments with shared resources.

h2. Quick Triage

# Check liveness and readiness (use {{/healthz}} for F5/Nginx/Kubernetes monitors — no external calls):
{code:language=bash}
curl -s http://127.0.0.1:8080/healthz    # liveness: always fast, no external calls
curl -s http://127.0.0.1:8080/readyz     # readiness: DB + Redis only
curl -s http://127.0.0.1:8080/deps       # external dep status snapshot (no live calls)
{code}
# Check health and error ratio:
{code:language=bash}
curl -s http://127.0.0.1:8080/health
curl -s http://127.0.0.1:8080/metrics | rg -n "http_requests_total|db_query_duration_seconds|cache_access_total"
{code}
# Check job backlog (queued/running sync and export jobs):
{code:language=bash}
curl -s http://127.0.0.1:8080/metrics | grep -E "sync_jobs|export_jobs"
{code}
If {{sync_jobs_queued}} stays > 10 for more than a few minutes, restart the worker.
# Check container status:
{code:language=bash}
docker compose ps
docker compose logs --tail=200 app worker redis postgres
{code}
# Validate current resource limits:
{code:language=bash}
docker inspect <app-container-id> --format 'cpus={{.HostConfig.NanoCpus}} mem={{.HostConfig.Memory}}'
{code}

h2. Incident: Redis Degraded/Down

Symptoms:
* cache hit ratio drops
* {{cache_access_total{status="error"}}} grows

Actions:
# Confirm Redis state:
{code:language=bash}
docker compose ps redis
docker compose logs --tail=200 redis
{code}
# Keep service online (fallback already implemented for key endpoints).
# Restart Redis:
{code:language=bash}
docker compose restart redis
{code}
# Run chaos smoke:
{code:language=bash}
bash scripts/m15_chaos_check.sh
{code}

h2. Incident: DB Slow / Pool Saturation

Symptoms:
* p95/p99 latency increase
* {{db_query_duration_seconds}} grows

Actions:
# Check DB health and active queries.
# Temporarily lower expensive traffic pressure (smaller export limits or stricter edge limits).
# Tune:
* {{DB_POOL_SIZE}}
* {{DB_MAX_OVERFLOW}}
* {{WORKERS}}
# Re-run benchmark gate:
{code:language=bash}
bash scripts/m15_premerge_gate.sh
{code}

h2. Incident: Upstream Source Outage

Symptoms:
* worker errors for source updates
* stale feed stats

Actions:
# Verify API key/network/certs.
# Keep ingestion running for unaffected sources.
# Track outage in logs and feed stats.

h4. Circuit Breaker State

Check worker logs for {{circuit_open}} / {{circuit_recovered}} events (field: {{source}}).
Thresholds are controlled by environment variables:
* {{MWDB_CIRCUIT_FAIL_THRESHOLD}} / {{MWDB_CIRCUIT_COOLDOWN_S}}
* {{MISP_CIRCUIT_FAIL_THRESHOLD}} / {{MISP_CIRCUIT_COOLDOWN_S}}
* {{ABUSECH_CIRCUIT_FAIL_THRESHOLD}} / {{ABUSECH_CIRCUIT_COOLDOWN_S}}

The circuit resets automatically after {{COOLDOWN_S}} seconds. To force an immediate
reset, restart the worker container.

h2. Release Gate

Before merge/release:
{code:language=bash}
bash scripts/m15_premerge_gate.sh
{code}

Recommended thresholds:
* mixed throughput >= 700 req/s
* mixed p95 <= 350 ms
* mixed error rate <= 1%

h2. Upgrade Procedure (Required Since 1.1.x)

Always run migrations before app/worker restart:

{code:language=bash}
docker compose -f docker-compose-release.yml pull
docker compose -f docker-compose-release.yml up -d app worker
{code}

Post-upgrade verification:

{code:language=bash}
docker compose -f docker-compose-release.yml logs --tail=200 app worker | rg "UndefinedTable|DetachedInstanceError|sync_job_enqueued|feed_sync_completed"
{code}

h2. Rollback

# Deploy previous stable image/tag.
# Restart app and worker.
# Re-run smoke checks:
{code:language=bash}
curl -fsS http://127.0.0.1:8080/healthz
curl -fsS http://127.0.0.1:8080/readyz
curl -fsS http://127.0.0.1:8080/indicators?limit=10
{code}

h2. F5 / Load Balancer Health Monitor

Configure F5 (or any L4/L7 load balancer) to use {{/healthz}}:
* *Monitor path:* {{/healthz}}
* *Expected response:* {{200 OK}} with body {{{"status":"ok"}}}
* *Do NOT use {{/health}}* for liveness — it checks DB/Redis on every call.

{{/readyz}} is appropriate for load-balancer readiness (removes node when DB/Redis are unreachable).

For full F5 Send String configuration, SELinux setup, and Nginx upstream troubleshooting, see:
[docs/troubleshooting/502-bad-gateway.md|troubleshooting/502-bad-gateway.md]
