h1. Data Sources

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: Supported feeds and ingestion behavior.\\
Source file: {code}docs/data-sources.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-03-03 09:11:26Z
{info}

h2. Content

Status: updated for {{1.1.x}} (2026-03-01).

h2. Overview

The Threat Feed Aggregator integrates multiple threat intelligence sources to provide comprehensive IOC coverage. All sources are normalized to a unified schema and stored in PostgreSQL.

---

h2. Supported Sources

h3. 1. MISP (Malware Information Sharing Platform)

*Type:* Threat Intelligence Platform  
*Integration:* PyMISP library  
*Update Frequency:* Configurable (default: 10 minutes)

*Configuration:*
{code:language=bash}
MISP_URL=https://misp.example.com
MISP_API_KEY=your-api-key
MISP_VERIFY_SSL=true  # Always true in production
MISP_DAYS=7  # Fetch events from last N days
{code}

*Fetched Data:*
* Events with {{to_ids=True}} flag only
* {{enforce_warninglist=True}} for quality filtering
* Includes event tags and attribute tags
* Supports all MISP attribute types

*Supported IOC Types:*
* IP addresses (ip-src, ip-dst, ip-src|port, ip-dst|port)
* Domains (domain, hostname)
* URLs
* Hashes (MD5, SHA1, SHA256, SHA512, SSDEEP)
* Emails (email, email-src, email-dst, email-subject)

*TLP Extraction:*
* Extracts TLP from attribute tags (priority)
* Falls back to event tags
* Supports TLP 2.0 (clear → WHITE)
* Default: GREEN if not specified

*TLP ceiling ({{MISP_MAX_TLP}}):*
* Attributes whose TLP exceeds {{MISP_MAX_TLP}} are silently skipped and counted in {{tlp_skipped}} (visible in logs and {{feed_stats.metadata}}).
* Default: {{AMBER}} — *TLP:RED attributes are not ingested by default*.
* Set {{MISP_MAX_TLP=RED}} to allow all TLP levels.

*Confidence Calculation:*
{code:language=none}
Base confidence from distribution:
- 0 (Your organization only): 90
- 1 (This community only): 80
- 2 (Connected communities): 70
- 3 (All communities): 60
- 4 (Sharing group): 50

Bonus for high-confidence tags:
+10 for: apt, malware, ransomware, banker, apt28, apt29
{code}

*Update Process:*
# Fetch attributes via PyMISP search
# Filter by timestamp (last N days)
# Normalize attribute types to internal schema
# Calculate confidence and extract TLP
# Upsert to database (per event)
# Mark missing indicators as inactive

---

h3. 2. CrowdSec

*Type:* Community-driven IP blocklists  
*Integration:* REST API  
*Update Frequency:* Configurable (default: 10 minutes)

*Configuration:*
{code:language=bash}
CROWDSEC_API_KEY=your-api-key
CROWDSEC_LISTS=list1,list2,list3
{code}

*Fetched Data:*
* IP addresses and CIDR ranges
* Plain text format (one per line)
* Comments starting with {{#}} are ignored

*IOC Types:*
* IP addresses only (IPv4 and IPv6)

*Metadata:*
* *TLP:* Always AMBER (hardcoded requirement)
* *Confidence:* 75 (fixed)
* *Source:* "crowdsec"
* *Source ID:* List ID

*Update Process:*
# Fetch each list via HTTP GET
# Parse plain text (skip comments)
# Preserve CIDR notation if present
# Upsert with list_id as source_ref
# Mark indicators not in current list as inactive

*API Endpoint:*
{code:language=none}
GET https://api.crowdsec.net/v2/blocklists/{list_id}
Headers:
  X-Api-Key: <your-key>
{code}

---

h3. 3. MalwareBazaar (abuse.ch)

*Type:* Malware sample repository  
*Integration:* REST API  
*Update Method:* Worker auto-update (tag-based) + manual CLI

*Configuration:*
{code:language=bash}
MALWAREBAZAAR_API_URL=https://mb-api.abuse.ch/api/v1/
ABUSECH_AUTH_KEY=your-key
MALWAREBAZAAR_SINCE_DATE=2025-01-01  # Optional
MALWAREBAZAAR_TAGS=TrickBot,Emotet
MALWAREBAZAAR_LIMIT=1000
{code}

*CLI Usage:*
{code:language=bash}
python -m app.cli fetch \
  --data-source bazaar \
  --tags TrickBot,Emotet \
  --since 2025-01-01 \
  --until 2025-01-31
{code}

*Fetched Data:*
* File hashes (SHA256, MD5, SHA1)
* Associated tags
* Sample metadata (file type, signature, etc.)

*IOC Types:*
* Hashes (MD5, SHA1, SHA256)

*Metadata:*
* Tags from MalwareBazaar
* File type and signature
* First/last seen timestamps
* Reporter information

---

h3. 4. MWDB (CERT.pl Malware Database)

*Type:* Malware repository  
*Integration:* REST API  
*Update Method:* Worker auto-update (tag-based) + manual CLI

*Configuration:*
{code:language=bash}
MWDB_URL=https://mwdb.cert.pl
MWDB_AUTH_KEY=your-api-key
MWDB_TAGS=malware,apt
MWDB_CUSTOM_FILTER=
MWDB_DAYS=30
MWDB_NO_TIME_LIMIT=false
MWDB_ORGANIZATIONS=
MWDB_LIMIT=1000
{code}

*CLI Usage:*
{code:language=bash}
python -m app.cli fetch \
  --data-source mwdb \
  --tags malware,apt \
  --since 2025-01-01 \
  --config-file ./config/cli.env
{code}

*Fetched Data:*
* File hashes
* Config extracts
* Associated tags
* Sample metadata

*IOC Types:*
* Hashes (SHA256, MD5, SHA1)
* Extracted IPs and domains
* URLs from configs

*Feed-specific controls (Admin):*
* {{Test connection}}
* dynamic user organization selection
* optional custom query filter (stored per feed)
* "My MWDB group" selector (see below)

h4. My MWDB Group (TLP:AMBER)

When {{MWDB_MY_GROUP}} is set, the service compares each object's uploaders
against the configured group name. Objects where {{uploaders[].group}} (or
{{organization}}, {{name}}) matches the configured value are tagged {{TLP:AMBER}}
instead of the default {{TLP:GREEN}}.

Configure via {{MWDB_MY_GROUP=<group-name>}} environment variable or use the
"My MWDB group" single-select dropdown in the Admin → Feed configuration UI.
The selected group is persisted in DB settings and injected into the sync
environment before each run.

h4. Default Query (empty-query edge case)

When neither {{MWDB_TAGS}} nor {{MWDB_CUSTOM_FILTER}} is set, the sync would
historically send no {{query}} parameter. Some MWDB deployments return empty
results without a query. The service now always sends a query, falling back to
{{MWDB_DEFAULT_QUERY}} (default: {{type:*}}) when nothing else is configured.

*Troubleshooting "0 fetched" from MWDB:*
# Check worker logs for {{mwdb_stop_reason}} entries — look at {{query_hash}}, {{filtered_org}}, {{filtered_time}}, {{filtered_no_ioc}} fields.
# If {{filtered_time}} is high, increase {{MWDB_DAYS}} or set {{MWDB_NO_TIME_LIMIT=true}}.
# If {{filtered_org}} is high, review {{MWDB_ORGANIZATIONS}} (leave empty to accept all).
# Check {{/deps}} endpoint for MWDB status and last error:
{code:language=bash}
   curl -s http://127.0.0.1:8080/deps | python -m json.tool
{code}
# If no objects match {{MWDB_TAGS}}, try a broader set or use {{MWDB_CUSTOM_FILTER}}.
# If MWDB deployment requires a specific query scope, set {{MWDB_DEFAULT_QUERY}} accordingly.

---

h3. 5. abuse.ch Extended Feeds

*Type:* Mixed IOC feeds  
*Integration:* REST API + text feeds  
*Update Method:* Worker auto-update (opt-in)

*Supported feeds:*
* ThreatFox ({{https://threatfox-api.abuse.ch/api/v1/}})
* URLhaus ({{https://urlhaus.abuse.ch/downloads/text_online/}})
* YARAify ({{https://yaraify-api.abuse.ch/api/v1/}})
* FeodoTracker ({{https://feodotracker.abuse.ch/downloads/ipblocklist.txt}})
* Hunting API false-positive list ({{https://hunting-api.abuse.ch/api/v1/}}, query {{get_fplist}})
* MalwareBazaar remains a separate datasource ({{source_type=malwarebazaar}}) and does not use abuse.ch toggles.

*Configuration:*
{code:language=bash}
ABUSECH_AUTH_KEY=your-auth-key

THREATFOX_ENABLED=true
THREATFOX_DAYS=3

URLHAUS_ENABLED=true
FEODOTRACKER_ENABLED=true

YARAIFY_ENABLED=true
YARAIFY_IDENTIFIER=your-identifier
YARAIFY_LOOKUP_HASHES=sha256_1,sha256_2

HUNTING_FPLIST_ENABLED=true
HUNTING_FPLIST_FORMAT=csv
{code}

Admin feed configuration for {{abusech}} supports selectors:
* {{threatfox}}, {{urlhaus}}, {{feodotracker}}, {{yaraify}}
* optional {{custom filter}} field (stored per feed)

*IOC types:*
* ThreatFox: IP/domain/url/hash (normalized)
* URLhaus: URL
* YARAify: hash
* FeodoTracker: IP
* Hunting FP list: inferred from CSV/JSON fields ({{ioc}}, {{value}}, {{ip}}, {{domain}}, {{url}}, hash fields)

---

h2. Source Comparison

| Source | Auto Update | IOC Types | TLP Support | Confidence | API Auth |
|--------|-------------|-----------|-------------|------------|----------|
| MISP | ✅ Yes | All | ✅ Yes | Dynamic | API Key |
| CrowdSec | ✅ Yes | IP only | ❌ AMBER only | Fixed (75) | API Key |
| MalwareBazaar | ✅ Yes (tags) | Hashes | ❌ No | Default (60) | API Key |
| MWDB | ✅ Yes (tags) | Hashes, object IDs | ❌ No | Default (60) | API Key |
| abuse.ch Extended | ✅ Yes (opt-in) | IP, domain, URL, hash | ❌ No | Source defaults | Auth Key / public feed |

---

h2. Data Normalization

h3. Unified Schema

All sources are normalized to:

{code:language=python}
{
  "ioc_value": "192.168.1.1",
  "ioc_type": "ip",
  "source": "misp",
  "source_ref": "event_id_123",
  "confidence": 80,
  "tlp": "AMBER",
  "is_active": True,
  "tags": ["apt", "malware"],
  "metadata": {
    "misp": {
      "attribute_id": "456",
      "category": "Network activity",
      "distribution": 1
    }
  },
  "first_seen": "2025-01-15T10:00:00Z",
  "last_seen": "2025-01-15T12:30:00Z"
}
{code}

h3. Enrichment & Correlation (M10)

* All canonicalized IOC rows are enriched with derived metadata ({{metadata.enrichment}}) such as:
* URL host/root domain
* IP properties (private/global/version)
* Hash family hint by length
* Cross-source correlation is available via {{GET /correlations}}, grouping active indicators by {{(value, type)}} seen in multiple sources.

h3. Type Mapping

| Source Type | Normalized Type |
|-------------|-----------------|
| ip-src, ip-dst, ip-src\|port | ip |
| domain, hostname | domain |
| url | url |
| md5, sha1, sha256, sha512, ssdeep | hash |
| email, email-src, email-dst | email |

---

h2. Update Strategy

h3. Automatic Updates (MISP, CrowdSec)

*Schedule:*
{code:language=python}
# Default: every 10 minutes
UPDATE_INTERVAL=600
{code}

*Process:*
# Background worker wakes up
# Fetches from each configured source
# Normalizes and upserts data
# Marks missing indicators as inactive
# Updates feed statistics
# Logs metrics

*Error Handling:*
* Exponential backoff for transient errors
* Failed source doesn't block others
* Errors logged to {{feed_stats.last_fetch_error}}
* Health endpoint reflects source status

h3. Manual Updates (MalwareBazaar, MWDB)

*Workflow:*
# Run CLI tool with desired parameters
# Fetches data from API
# Normalizes and upserts to database
# Returns ingestion statistics

*Benefits:*
* Control over what gets ingested
* Filter by tags before import
* Time range selection
* Dry-run mode for testing

---

h2. Feed Statistics

Tracked per source in {{feed_stats}} table:

{code:language=sql}
SELECT * FROM ti.feed_stats;
{code}

*Columns:*
* {{source}} - Source name (misp, crowdsec, etc.)
* {{source_ref}} - Optional source-specific ID
* {{total_indicators}} - Total ever seen
* {{active_indicators}} - Currently active
* {{inactive_indicators}} - Deactivated
* {{last_update}} - Last successful update
* {{last_fetch_status}} - success/error
* {{last_fetch_error}} - Error message if failed
* {{metadata}} - Additional stats (e.g., fetched count)

*View Stats:*
{code:language=bash}
curl https://localhost:7003/
# Shows feed statistics table
{code}

---

h2. Adding New Sources

h3. Integration Checklist

# *Create service module:* {{app/services/new_source.py}}
# *Implement fetch function:*
{code:language=python}
   def fetch_new_source() -> List[Dict]:
       # Fetch from API
       # Normalize to internal schema
       # Return list of indicators
       pass
{code}
# *Add to worker:* Register in {{app/worker.py}}
# *Add configuration:* Environment variables in {{app/config.py}}
# *Update documentation:* This file and configuration.md
# *Add tests:* Unit and integration tests

h3. Example Implementation

{code:language=python}
# app/services/example.py
def fetch_example_feed(api_key: str) -> List[Dict]:
    resp = requests.get(
        "https://api.example.com/indicators",
        headers={"Authorization": f"Bearer {api_key}"},
        timeout=30
    )
    resp.raise_for_status()
    
    indicators = []
    for item in resp.json()["items"]:
        indicators.append({
            "ioc_value": item["value"],
            "ioc_type": map_type(item["type"]),
            "source": "example",
            "source_ref": str(item["id"]),
            "confidence": 70,
            "tlp": "GREEN",
            "is_active": True,
            "tags": item.get("tags", []),
            "metadata": {"raw": item},
            "first_seen": datetime.now(timezone.utc),
            "last_seen": datetime.now(timezone.utc),
        })
    
    return indicators
{code}

---

h2. Best Practices

h3. Source Selection

# *Quality over quantity* - Prefer high-fidelity sources
# *TLP compliance* - Respect data sharing restrictions
# *Update frequency* - Balance freshness vs. API limits
# *Attribution* - Track provenance with source_ref

h3. Performance

# *Batch upserts* - Use PostgreSQL's ON CONFLICT
# *Incremental updates* - Fetch only new/changed data
# *Connection pooling* - Reuse HTTP connections
# *Caching* - Cache API responses when appropriate

h3. Error Handling

# *Retry with backoff* - Handle transient errors
# *Circuit breaker* - Stop after repeated failures
# *Alerting* - Monitor {{feed_stats.last_fetch_status}}
# *Graceful degradation* - Continue with other sources

---

h2. See Also

* [CLI Documentation|cli.md] - Manual ingestion tools
* [Configuration|configuration.md] - Source configuration
* [Architecture|architecture.md] - Data flow and processing
* [Database|database.md] - Schema and indexes
