h1. Database

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: Schema, functions, and DB operational notes.\\
Source file: {code}docs/database.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-03-02 17:29:40Z
{info}

h2. Content

Status: updated for {{1.1.x}} (2026-03-01).

h2. Overview

PostgreSQL 16+ with custom schema, functions, and indexes for high-performance IOC storage and retrieval.

---

h2. Schema: {{ti}} (Threat Intelligence)

All tables live in the {{ti}} schema for namespace isolation.

---

h2. Tables

h3. indicators

Core table storing all IOCs with provenance tracking.

{code:language=sql}
CREATE TABLE ti.indicators (
    id BIGSERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    uuid UUID UNIQUE DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
    
    -- IOC data
    ioc_value TEXT NOT NULL,
    ioc_type TEXT NOT NULL CHECK (ioc_type IN ('ip','domain','url','hash','email')),
    
    -- Provenance (unique per source+ref)
    source TEXT NOT NULL,
    source_ref TEXT,
    
    -- Metadata
    confidence SMALLINT DEFAULT 50 CHECK (confidence BETWEEN 0 AND 100),
    tlp TEXT DEFAULT 'GREEN' CHECK (tlp IN ('WHITE','GREEN','AMBER','RED')),
    is_active BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE,
    tags TEXT[] DEFAULT '{}',
    comments TEXT,
    metadata JSONB DEFAULT '{}',
    
    -- Timestamps
    first_seen TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT now(),
    last_seen TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT now(),
    created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT now(),
    updated_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT now(),
    
    CONSTRAINT unique_indicator UNIQUE (ioc_value, ioc_type, source, source_ref)
);
{code}

*Unique Constraint Logic:*

Same IOC from different sources = different rows:
* {{192.168.1.1}} from MISP event 123
* {{192.168.1.1}} from CrowdSec list abc
= 2 separate rows

h3. feed_stats

Health and statistics per feed.

h3. sync_jobs

Queue table for feed synchronization orchestration.

Key fields:
* {{job_id}} (unique)
* {{feed_source_id}}
* {{trigger_type}} ({{manual}} / {{scheduled}})
* {{status}} ({{queued}} / {{running}} / {{success}} / {{failed}})
* {{error}}, {{result_json}}
* {{created_at}}, {{started_at}}, {{finished_at}}

Indexes:
* {{idx_sync_jobs_feed_status}}
* {{idx_sync_jobs_created}}
* {{idx_sync_jobs_status_created}}
* {{idx_sync_jobs_trigger_status}}

Schema is managed through Alembic migrations ({{0001}}, {{0002}}, {{0003}}).

{code:language=sql}
CREATE TABLE ti.feed_stats (
    id BIGSERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    source TEXT NOT NULL,
    source_ref TEXT,
    total_indicators INTEGER DEFAULT 0,
    active_indicators INTEGER DEFAULT 0,
    inactive_indicators INTEGER DEFAULT 0,
    last_update TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT now(),
    last_fetch_status TEXT,
    last_fetch_error TEXT,
    metadata JSONB DEFAULT '{}',
    
    CONSTRAINT unique_feed_stats UNIQUE (source, source_ref)
);
{code}

h3. audit_log

Tracks API queries and exports.

{code:language=sql}
CREATE TABLE ti.audit_log (
    id BIGSERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    action TEXT NOT NULL,
    entity_type TEXT,
    entity_id INTEGER,
    user_id TEXT,
    ip_address INET,
    metadata JSONB DEFAULT '{}',
    created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT now()
);
{code}

---

h2. Indexes

h3. B-tree Indexes

{code:language=sql}
-- Primary lookups
CREATE INDEX idx_indicators_source ON ti.indicators(source, source_ref, is_active);
CREATE INDEX idx_indicators_type ON ti.indicators(ioc_type, is_active);
CREATE INDEX idx_indicators_tlp ON ti.indicators(tlp, is_active);
CREATE INDEX idx_indicators_last_seen ON ti.indicators(last_seen DESC);

-- Partial index for active only
CREATE INDEX idx_indicators_active ON ti.indicators(ioc_value, ioc_type)
  WHERE is_active = TRUE;

-- migration 0003: efficient status queries and admin dashboard
CREATE INDEX idx_feed_runs_status_started ON feed_runs (status, started_at);
{code}

h3. GIN Indexes

{code:language=sql}
-- Array search on tags
CREATE INDEX idx_indicators_tags ON ti.indicators USING GIN(tags);

-- JSONB search on metadata
CREATE INDEX idx_indicators_metadata ON ti.indicators USING GIN(metadata);

-- Full-text search (optional)
CREATE INDEX idx_indicators_value_trgm ON ti.indicators 
  USING GIN(ioc_value gin_trgm_ops);
{code}

---

h2. Functions

h3. ti.export_indicators()

Database-native export for performance.

{code:language=sql}
SELECT ti.export_indicators(
    'csv',  -- format
    'type:ip AND confidence:>70',  -- query
    100000,  -- limit
    0,  -- offset
    ARRAY['ip'],  -- types filter
    ARRAY['misp'],  -- sources filter
    ARRAY['AMBER'],  -- tlps filter
    TRUE  -- active_only
);
{code}

h3. ti.search_unified()

Unified search with filters.

{code:language=sql}
SELECT * FROM ti.search_unified(
    'value:192.168.*',  -- query
    1000,  -- limit
    0,  -- offset
    NULL,  -- types
    NULL,  -- sources
    NULL,  -- tlps
    TRUE  -- active_only
);
{code}

---

h2. Triggers

h3. updated_at Maintenance

{code:language=sql}
CREATE TRIGGER trg_indicators_updated
BEFORE UPDATE ON ti.indicators
FOR EACH ROW
EXECUTE FUNCTION ti.update_timestamp();
{code}

---

h2. Queries

h3. Find High-Confidence IPs

{code:language=sql}
SELECT ioc_value, confidence, source, tags
FROM ti.indicators
WHERE ioc_type = 'ip'
  AND confidence >= 80
  AND is_active = TRUE
ORDER BY last_seen DESC
LIMIT 100;
{code}

h3. Search by Tag

{code:language=sql}
SELECT ioc_value, ioc_type, tags
FROM ti.indicators
WHERE 'apt' = ANY(tags)
  AND is_active = TRUE;
{code}

h3. Feed Statistics

{code:language=sql}
SELECT source, 
       active_indicators, 
       last_update, 
       last_fetch_status
FROM ti.feed_stats
ORDER BY last_update DESC;
{code}

---

h2. Maintenance

h3. Vacuum

{code:language=sql}
-- Regular vacuum
VACUUM ANALYZE ti.indicators;

-- Full vacuum (requires lock)
VACUUM FULL ti.indicators;
{code}

h3. Reindex

{code:language=sql}
REINDEX TABLE ti.indicators;
{code}

h3. Statistics

{code:language=sql}
-- Update planner statistics
ANALYZE ti.indicators;
{code}

---

h2. Performance Tuning

h3. Connection Pooling

{code:language=python}
# app/db.py
engine = create_engine(
    DATABASE_URL,
    pool_size=10,
    max_overflow=20,
    pool_pre_ping=True,
    pool_recycle=1800
)
{code}

h3. Query Optimization

# *Use indexes* - Check with EXPLAIN ANALYZE
# *Limit results* - Always use LIMIT
# *Partial indexes* - For common filters (is_active=TRUE)
# *Batch operations* - ON CONFLICT for upserts

h3. PostgreSQL Config

{code:language=ini}
# postgresql.conf
shared_buffers = 2GB  # 25% of RAM
work_mem = 64MB
maintenance_work_mem = 512MB
effective_cache_size = 6GB  # 75% of RAM
{code}

---

h2. Backup & Recovery

h3. Backup

{code:language=bash}
# Full dump
pg_dump -h localhost -U threatfeed -d threatfeed -F c -f backup.dump

# Schema only
pg_dump -h localhost -U threatfeed -d threatfeed --schema-only > schema.sql

# Data only
pg_dump -h localhost -U threatfeed -d threatfeed --data-only > data.sql
{code}

h3. Restore

{code:language=bash}
# From custom format
pg_restore -h localhost -U threatfeed -d threatfeed backup.dump

# From SQL
psql -h localhost -U threatfeed -d threatfeed < backup.sql
{code}

---

h2. See Also

* [Architecture|architecture.md] - Database-first design
* [Data Sources|data-sources.md] - Schema normalization
* [Configuration|configuration.md] - DATABASE_URL setup
