h1. Web UI

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: UI screens, behavior, and usage.\\
Source file: {code}docs/web-ui.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-03-03 07:53:11Z
{info}

h2. Content

Status: updated for {{1.2.x}} (2026-03-02).

h2. Overview

The Web UI provides a browser-based interface for searching and viewing IOCs with WCAG 2.1 AA accessibility compliance.

---

h2. Endpoints

h3. Dashboard: {{/}}

System overview with statistics and quick links.

*Features:*
* Total/active indicator counts
* Feed statistics table
* Quick links to exports
* Shared dark/light theme toggle with persisted preference

h3. Indicator Search: {{/indicators}}

Kibana-like search interface with filters.

*Features:*
* Search input with syntax help
* Type/TLP/Source filters
* Confidence range sliders
* Per-row export links
* Responsive table layout

*Accessibility:*
* ARIA labels on all controls
* Keyboard shortcuts (/ to focus search)
* Skip links
* Semantic HTML
* Screen reader support

---

h2. Search Interface

h3. Query Input

Supports Kibana-like syntax:

{code:language=none}
value:192.168.*
type:ip AND confidence:>70
tlp:AMBER OR tlp:RED
{code}

h3. Filters

* *Type:* ip, domain, url, hash, email, all
* *TLP:* WHITE, GREEN, AMBER, RED, all
* *Source:* misp, crowdsec, malwarebazaar, mwdb, all
* *Confidence:* Min/Max sliders (0-100)

h3. Results Table

Columns:
# Indicator value (monospace)
# Type (badge)
# Confidence (progress bar)
# TLP (badge)
# Source
# Export formats
# Tags
# MISP Event link (if applicable)

---

h2. Keyboard Shortcuts

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| {{/}} | Focus search box |
| {{Esc}} | Clear search and blur |
| {{Tab}} | Navigate between controls |

---

h2. Mobile Support

Responsive design with:
* Horizontal scroll for table
* Touch-friendly buttons
* Readable font sizes
* Optimized layout

---

h2. Customization

h3. Theming

Theme is unified across {{/}}, {{/indicators}}, {{/admin}}, {{/logs}}, and feed config pages.
Preference is stored in browser {{localStorage}} under key {{ioc-theme}}.

h3. Admin Feed Configuration UX

Feed forms include:
* {{Save settings}}
* {{Test connection}}
* {{Back}}
* Disabled/loading button states on submit

*MWDB feed* additionally shows a "My MWDB group" single-select dropdown populated
after a successful connection test. Selecting a group configures {{MWDB_MY_GROUP}}:
indicators uploaded by members of that group are tagged {{TLP:AMBER}} instead of the
default {{TLP:GREEN}}. The selection is persisted in DB settings.

h3. Admin Proxy Settings

Global admin configuration includes outbound proxy controls:
* {{HTTP proxy}}
* {{HTTPS proxy}}
* {{No proxy list}}
* {{Organization CA bundle path}} (maps to {{REQUESTS_CA_BUNDLE}})
* {{Trusted proxy count}}
* {{Skip TLS certificate verification for outbound HTTP requests (insecure, curl -k equivalent)}}
* {{Test proxy}} action (checks {{mwdb.cert.pl}}, {{abuse.ch}}, {{cert.pl}} and stores result table)

{{Skip TLS certificate verification}} is intended for troubleshooting only. For production,
prefer proper CA trust ({{REQUESTS_CA_BUNDLE}}) instead of disabling verification.

{{Test proxy}} stores a result snapshot with:
* target
* status ({{OK}} / {{WARNING}} / {{ERROR}})
* HTTP status
* latency
* page title (anti-captive-portal sanity check)
* notes/error details

h3. Layout

Modify HTML templates in rendering functions:
* {{_render_index()}} - Dashboard
* {{_render_indicators()}} - Search results

---

h2. See Also

* [API Documentation|api.md] - REST endpoints
* [Architecture|architecture.md] - Web application layer
