h1. SSL

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: TLS certificate setup and validation.\\
Source file: {code}docs/ssl.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-03-03 07:53:11Z
{info}

h2. Content

Status: updated for 1.1.x (2026-02-26).

h2. Overview

The application uses Nginx as a TLS-terminating reverse proxy with automatic certificate management.

---

h2. SSL Setup

h3. Automated (Recommended)

{code:language=bash}
./scripts/setup-ssl.sh
{code}

Creates:
* Self-signed certificate for development
* 2048-bit RSA key
* 365-day validity
* Stored in {{./ssl/}}

h3. Manual

{code:language=bash}
# Generate private key
openssl genrsa -out ssl/key.pem 2048

# Generate certificate
openssl req -new -x509 -key ssl/key.pem -out ssl/cert.pem -days 365
{code}

---

h2. Production Certificates

h3. Let's Encrypt

{code:language=bash}
# Install certbot
apt-get install certbot python3-certbot-nginx

# Obtain certificate
certbot certonly --nginx -d your-domain.com

# Configure paths
SSL_CERT_PATH=/etc/letsencrypt/live/your-domain.com/fullchain.pem
SSL_KEY_PATH=/etc/letsencrypt/live/your-domain.com/privkey.pem
{code}

h3. Commercial CA

# Generate CSR
# Submit to CA
# Receive certificate
# Configure paths in {{.env}}

---

h2. Configuration

h3. Environment Variables

{code:language=bash}
SSL_CERT_PATH=./ssl/cert.pem
SSL_KEY_PATH=./ssl/key.pem
SSL_CHAIN_PATH=./ssl/chain.pem  # Optional
{code}

h3. Nginx Config

{code:language=nginx}
ssl_protocols TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3;
ssl_ciphers 'ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:...';
ssl_prefer_server_ciphers off;
ssl_session_cache shared:SSL:10m;
ssl_session_timeout 10m;
{code}

---

h2. Security Features

* *TLS 1.2+* only
* *Modern cipher suites*
* *HSTS* header
* *OCSP stapling* (if chain provided)
* *HTTP/2* enabled

---

h2. Troubleshooting

h3. Certificate Errors

{code:language=bash}
# Verify certificate
openssl x509 -in ssl/cert.pem -text -noout

# Check expiration
openssl x509 -in ssl/cert.pem -noout -enddate

# Test TLS handshake
openssl s_client -connect localhost:7003
{code}

h3. Browser Warnings

Self-signed certificates trigger warnings:
* Click "Advanced" → "Proceed"
* Or import certificate to trusted store

---

h2. See Also

* [Configuration|configuration.md] - SSL variables
* [DEPLOYMENT.md|../DEPLOYMENT.md] - Production setup
