h1. Runbook

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: Incident and routine operations playbook.\\
Source file: {code}docs/runbook.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-02-25 15:51:58Z
{info}

h2. Content

h2. Scope

Operational playbook for the IOC service in production-like environments with shared resources.

h2. Quick Triage

# Check health and error ratio:
{code:language=bash}
curl -s http://127.0.0.1:8080/health
curl -s http://127.0.0.1:8080/metrics | rg -n "http_requests_total|db_query_duration_seconds|cache_access_total"
{code}
# Check container status:
{code:language=bash}
docker compose ps
docker compose logs --tail=200 app worker redis postgres
{code}
# Validate current resource limits:
{code:language=bash}
docker inspect <app-container-id> --format 'cpus={{.HostConfig.NanoCpus}} mem={{.HostConfig.Memory}}'
{code}

h2. Incident: Redis Degraded/Down

Symptoms:
* cache hit ratio drops
* {{cache_access_total{status="error"}}} grows

Actions:
# Confirm Redis state:
{code:language=bash}
docker compose ps redis
docker compose logs --tail=200 redis
{code}
# Keep service online (fallback already implemented for key endpoints).
# Restart Redis:
{code:language=bash}
docker compose restart redis
{code}
# Run chaos smoke:
{code:language=bash}
bash scripts/m15_chaos_check.sh
{code}

h2. Incident: DB Slow / Pool Saturation

Symptoms:
* p95/p99 latency increase
* {{db_query_duration_seconds}} grows

Actions:
# Check DB health and active queries.
# Temporarily lower expensive traffic pressure (smaller export limits or stricter edge limits).
# Tune:
* {{DB_POOL_SIZE}}
* {{DB_MAX_OVERFLOW}}
* {{WORKERS}}
# Re-run benchmark gate:
{code:language=bash}
bash scripts/m15_premerge_gate.sh
{code}

h2. Incident: Upstream Source Outage

Symptoms:
* worker errors for source updates
* stale feed stats

Actions:
# Verify API key/network/certs.
# Keep ingestion running for unaffected sources.
# Track outage in logs and feed stats.

h2. Release Gate

Before merge/release:
{code:language=bash}
bash scripts/m15_premerge_gate.sh
{code}

Recommended thresholds:
* mixed throughput >= 700 req/s
* mixed p95 <= 350 ms
* mixed error rate <= 1%

h2. Rollback

# Deploy previous stable image/tag.
# Restart app and worker.
# Re-run smoke checks:
{code:language=bash}
curl -fsS http://127.0.0.1:8080/health
curl -fsS http://127.0.0.1:8080/indicators?limit=10
{code}
