h1. Architecture

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: System components, data flow, and design rationale.\\
Source file: {code}docs/architecture.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-03-02 17:29:40Z
{info}

h2. Content

Status: updated for {{1.1.x}} (2026-03-01).

h2. Overview

The Threat Feed Aggregator follows a *database-first* architecture where PostgreSQL serves as the central hub for data storage, transformation, and export operations. This design prioritizes performance, consistency, and reliability over application-level complexity.

---

h2. System Architecture

{code:language=none}
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         Nginx (Reverse Proxy)                   │
│         TLS 1.2+, HTTP/2, Security Headers, Rate Limiting       │
└──────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                   │
┌──────────────────▼──────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  Flask Application (Gunicorn)                    │
│  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌──────────────────────┐   │
│  │   Main API  │  │   Web UI    │  │  Background Worker   │   │
│  │  (REST/HTML)│  │  (Blueprint)│  │  (Scheduled Updates) │   │
│  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘  └──────────────────────┘   │
│         │                │                     │                │
│         └────────────────┴─────────────────────┘                │
│                          │                                       │
└──────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────────┘
                           │
        ┌──────────────────┼──────────────────┐
        │                  │                  │
        ▼                  ▼                  ▼
┌───────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐
│  PostgreSQL   │  │    Redis     │  │   External   │
│   Database    │  │    Cache     │  │  TI Sources  │
│               │  │              │  │              │
│ - Indicators  │  │ - Response   │  │ - MISP       │
│ - Feed Stats  │  │   Cache      │  │ - CrowdSec   │
│ - Audit Log   │  │ - Rate Limit │  │ - Malware    │
│ - Functions   │  │   State      │  │   Bazaar     │
│ - Indexes     │  │              │  │ - MWDB       │
└───────────────┘  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘
{code}

---

h2. Core Components

h3. 1. Web Application Layer

*Technology:* Flask 3.0 + Gunicorn

*Responsibilities:*
* HTTP request handling
* Query parsing and validation
* Response formatting and caching
* Security enforcement (headers, rate limiting)
* Audit logging

*Key Files:*
* {{app/main.py}} - Main Flask application, endpoints
* {{app/webui.py}} - Web UI Blueprint
* {{app/security.py}} - Security middleware and validation
* {{app/formatters.py}} - Export format implementations

*Characteristics:*
* Stateless design for horizontal scalability
* Minimal business logic (offloaded to database)
* Immutable configuration (dataclass)
* Structured logging with context

h3. 2. Database Layer (PostgreSQL 16+)

*Why Database-First:*
* *Performance:* SQL functions eliminate round-trips
* *Consistency:* Database handles transactions and constraints
* *Reliability:* ACID guarantees for concurrent writes
* *Scalability:* Query optimization at database level
* *Simplicity:* Less application code = fewer bugs

*Schema Design:*

{code:language=sql}
ti.indicators (
    -- Identity
    id BIGSERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    uuid UUID UNIQUE,

    -- IOC Data
    ioc_value TEXT NOT NULL,
    ioc_type TEXT NOT NULL,

    -- Provenance (unique constraint)
    source TEXT NOT NULL,
    source_ref TEXT,

    -- Metadata
    confidence SMALLINT CHECK (0-100),
    tlp TEXT CHECK (WHITE|GREEN|AMBER|RED),
    is_active BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE,
    tags TEXT[],
    metadata JSONB,

    -- Timestamps
    first_seen TIMESTAMPTZ,
    last_seen TIMESTAMPTZ,
    created_at TIMESTAMPTZ,
    updated_at TIMESTAMPTZ,

    UNIQUE (ioc_value, ioc_type, source, source_ref)
)
{code}

*Database Functions:*
* {{ti.export_indicators()}} - Native format export
* {{ti.search_unified()}} - Unified search with filtering
* {{ti.upsert_indicator()}} - Atomic upsert operations
* Triggers for {{updated_at}} maintenance

*Indexes:*
* B-tree on {{(source, source_id, is_active)}}
* GIN on {{tags}} array
* GIN on {{metadata}} JSONB
* pg_trgm for wildcard searches
* Partial indexes for active indicators

*Performance Optimizations:*
* Prepared statements via SQLAlchemy
* Connection pooling (10 + 20 overflow)
* Pool pre-ping for stale connection detection
* Query result caching in Redis

h3. 3. Cache Layer (Redis 7)

*Purpose:*
* HTTP response caching (HTML, exports)
* Rate limit state storage
* Session management (future)

*Configuration:*
* *Persistence:* AOF (Append-Only File)
* *Memory:* 512MB max with LRU eviction
* *TTL:* 5 minutes default (CACHE_TTL)
* *Connection:* Single connection pool

*Cache Keys:*
{code:language=none}
indicators_html|q=value:*|type=ip|tlp=AMBER|...
export|fmt=csv|q=...|type=...
{code}

*Benefits:*
* Reduces database load
* Improves response latency
* Enables horizontal scaling
* Adds visibility via cache hit/miss metrics ({{cache_access_total}})

h3. 4. Background Worker

*Technology:* Python schedule library + threading

*Responsibilities:*
* Periodic threat feed updates
* Feed health monitoring
* Stale indicator cleanup
* Statistics calculation

*Update Cycle:*
{code:language=python}
# Default: 10 minutes (UPDATE_INTERVAL=600)
schedule.every(10).minutes.do(update_all_feeds)
{code}

*Feed Update Process:*
# Fetch from external API (with retry/backoff)
# Normalize IOC format
# Upsert to database (ON CONFLICT handling)
# Mark missing indicators as inactive
# Update feed_stats table
# Log metrics

*Error Handling:*
* Exponential backoff for transient errors
* CircuitBreaker ({{app/services/common.py}}) — opens after N consecutive failures, recovers after cooldown; used by abusech, mwdb, misp
* Failed feed updates don't block others
* Errors logged with structured context
* {{feed_stats.last_fetch_error}} tracking

h3. 5. Sync Scheduler / Queue (1.1.x)

The application now uses a DB-backed sync queue:
* {{sync_jobs}} table for job lifecycle tracking
* idempotent enqueue per feed (prevents duplicate queued/running jobs)
* manual and scheduled sync paths both use the same queue runner
* logs include {{run_id/job_id}} for traceability

Startup is migration-first (Alembic), no runtime {{create_all}}.

---

h2. Data Flow

h3. Ingestion Flow (Background Worker)

{code:language=none}
External Source → API Fetch → Normalization → Database Upsert → Feed Stats
     (MISP)                                         ↓
     (CrowdSec)                              Audit Logging
     (MalwareBazaar)                              ↓
     (MWDB)                                  Cache Invalidation
{code}

*Steps:*
# *Fetch:* HTTP GET with auth headers, retry logic
# *Normalize:* Map source format to internal schema
# *Transform:* Calculate confidence, extract TLP, parse tags
# *Upsert:* {{ON CONFLICT DO UPDATE}} for idempotency
# *Audit:* Log ingestion stats and errors
# *Cache:* Clear relevant cache keys
# *Quality/Enrichment:* Canonical normalization, dedup, and metadata enrichment

h3. Query Flow (API Request)

{code:language=none}
Client Request → Nginx → Flask → Cache Check → Database Query → Format → Response
                   ↓         ↓                        ↓
              Rate Limit   Security            Result Cache
              Check       Validation           (Redis)
{code}

*Steps:*
# *Nginx:* TLS termination, rate limiting, security headers
# *Global Guardrail:* In-process hard cap {{REQUESTS_PER_SECOND_MAX}} (default 1,000,000 req/s)
# *Flask:* Parse query, validate syntax (max 500 chars)
# *Cache:* Check Redis for cached response
# *Database:* Execute parameterized SQL query with latency metrics ({{db_query_duration_seconds}})
# *Correlation (optional):* Aggregate active IOCs across distinct sources via {{/correlations}}
# *Format:* Apply output formatter (txt/csv/json/...)
# *Cache:* Store result in Redis (TTL: 5 minutes)
# *Response:* Return with security headers

---

h2. Security Architecture

h3. Defense Layers

*Layer 1: Network (Nginx)*
* TLS 1.2+ only, modern cipher suites
* Rate limiting (nginx + redis)
* Request size limits
* DDoS mitigation

*Layer 2: Application (Flask)*
* Host header validation
* Query syntax validation (max length, blacklist)
* Input sanitization
* Secure session cookies
* CSRF protection (SameSite)

*Layer 3: Database*
* Parameterized queries only (SQLAlchemy ORM)
* Connection credentials via environment
* Read-only query user (optional)
* Row-level security (future)

*Security Headers:*
{code:language=none}
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'self'; ...
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000
Permissions-Policy: geolocation=(), microphone=(), camera=()
{code}

h3. Authentication & Authorization

*Current State:* No authentication required

*Recommended for Production:*
# Deploy behind VPN/private network
# Add nginx basic auth for /metrics
# Implement API key middleware
# Use IP whitelisting

*Future Enhancements:*
* JWT-based authentication
* Role-based access control (RBAC)
* TLP-based filtering per user
* API key rotation

---

h2. Scalability

h3. Horizontal Scaling

*Stateless Design:*
* No application state (all in Redis/PostgreSQL)
* Session storage in Redis
* Load balancer ready (nginx, HAProxy)

*Scaling Strategy:*
{code:language=none}
┌────────┐    ┌────────┐    ┌────────┐
│ App 1  │    │ App 2  │    │ App N  │
└───┬────┘    └───┬────┘    └───┬────┘
    │             │             │
    └─────────────┼─────────────┘
                  │
            ┌─────▼─────┐
            │   Redis   │
            └───────────┘
                  │
            ┌─────▼─────┐
            │PostgreSQL │
            └───────────┘
{code}

*Considerations:*
* Shared Redis for cache consistency
* Database connection pooling per instance
* Worker runs on single instance only (leader election needed for multi-worker)

h3. Vertical Scaling

*Database:*
* Increase {{shared_buffers}} (25% of RAM)
* Tune {{work_mem}} for complex queries
* Enable parallel query execution
* Add more indexes for specific workloads

*Application:*
* Increase Gunicorn workers (2-4 × CPU cores)
* Increase database connection pool size
* Tune Redis maxmemory

*Performance Targets:*
* < 100ms for cached responses
* < 500ms for database queries
* < 2s for large exports (100k IOCs)
* 1000+ req/s with caching

---

h2. Monitoring & Observability

h3. Metrics (Prometheus)

{code:language=none}
# Request metrics
http_requests_total{method, endpoint, status}
http_request_duration_seconds{endpoint}

# Application metrics
active_indicators
database_connection_pool_size
redis_cache_hit_ratio

# Job backlog metrics (Gauge, refreshed on each /metrics scrape)
sync_jobs_queued      # SyncJobs in status=queued
sync_jobs_running     # SyncJobs in status=running
export_jobs_pending   # ExportJobs in status=queued or running

# System metrics (via node_exporter)
node_cpu_usage
node_memory_usage
node_disk_io
{code}

h3. Logging

*Format:* JSON structured logging

*Levels:*
* DEBUG: Query details, cache operations
* INFO: Request logging, feed updates
* WARNING: Retry attempts, degraded performance
* ERROR: Failed requests, database errors

*Context:*
{code:language=json}
{
  "timestamp": "2025-01-15T10:30:00Z",
  "level": "INFO",
  "message": "misp_updated",
  "extra": {
    "fetched": 1234,
    "events": 45,
    "duration_ms": 2345
  }
}
{code}

h3. Health Checks

*Endpoint:* {{/health}}

*Checks:*
* Database connectivity
* Redis availability
* MISP API reachability
* CrowdSec API key validity

*Docker Healthcheck:*
{code:language=dockerfile}
HEALTHCHECK --interval=30s --timeout=10s --retries=3 \
  CMD curl -fsS http://localhost:8080/health || exit 1
{code}

---

h2. Technology Stack

| Component | Technology | Version | Purpose |
|-----------|------------|---------|---------|
| Application | Python | 3.12 | Runtime |
| Web Framework | Flask | 3.1.3 | HTTP server |
| WSGI Server | Gunicorn | 22.0.0 | Production server |
| Database | PostgreSQL | 16+ | Data storage |
| Cache | Redis | 7+ | Response cache |
| Reverse Proxy | Nginx | 1.24+ | TLS, rate limiting |
| ORM | SQLAlchemy | 2.0.36 | Database abstraction |
| HTTP Client | requests | 2.32.4 | External API calls |
| Rate Limiting | Flask-Limiter | 3.7.0 | API rate limiting |
| Metrics | prometheus-client | 0.20.0 | Metrics export |
| MISP Client | pymisp | 2.4.179 | MISP integration |
| JSON | stdlib {{json}} | Python 3.12+ | JSON serialization |

---

h2. Design Principles

# *Database-First:* Offload complexity to PostgreSQL
# *Immutability:* Configuration is immutable (dataclass)
# *Fail-Fast:* Validate early, fail with clear errors
# *Defense-in-Depth:* Multiple security layers
# *Observability:* Structured logging, metrics, health checks
# *Simplicity:* Minimal abstractions, explicit over implicit
# *Performance:* Caching, indexing, connection pooling
# *Idempotency:* Upsert operations, safe retries

---

h2. Future Enhancements

h3. High Priority
* [ ] API authentication (API keys, JWT)
* [ ] Multi-tenancy support
* [ ] Real-time updates (WebSocket/SSE)
* [ ] Advanced query language (AST-based)

h3. Medium Priority
* [ ] GraphQL API
* [ ] Bulk import API
* [ ] Indicator enrichment pipeline
* [ ] Machine learning confidence scoring

h3. Low Priority
* [ ] Mobile app
* [ ] ChatOps integration (Slack, Teams)
* [ ] Threat intel sharing (TAXII 2.1)
* [ ] Blockchain provenance tracking

---

h2. Development

h3. Local Setup

{code:language=bash}
# Clone and setup
git clone <repo>
cd ioc-service
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Database setup
docker compose up -d postgres redis
psql -h localhost -U threatfeed -d threatfeed -f database/init.sql

# Run app
export SECRET_KEY=$(python -c 'import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))')
export DATABASE_URL="postgresql://..."
python -m flask --app app.main run --debug
{code}

h3. Testing

{code:language=bash}
# Unit tests
pytest tests/ -v

# Integration tests
docker compose up -d
pytest tests/integration/ -v

# Load tests
python scripts/benchmark_m12.py --base-url http://127.0.0.1:8080 --duration 30 --concurrency 64
{code}

---

h2. See Also

* [API Documentation|api.md] - API endpoints and formats
* [Database Schema|database.md] - Database design
* [Configuration|configuration.md] - Environment variables
* [SECURITY_AUDIT_REPORT.md|../SECURITY_AUDIT_REPORT.md] - Security analysis
