h1. CLI

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: Command-line ingestion workflows.\\
Source file: {code}docs/cli.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-03-03 09:11:26Z
{info}

h2. Content

Status: updated for {{1.1.x}} (2026-02-26).

h2. Overview

The CLI tool ({{app.cli}}) provides manual ingestion of IOCs from MalwareBazaar and MWDB repositories. It offers fine-grained control over what data gets imported.

---

h2. Installation

{code:language=bash}
# In project directory
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
{code}

---

h2. Basic Usage

{code:language=bash}
python -m app.cli fetch \
  --data-source {bazaar|mwdb} \
  --tags TAG1,TAG2 \
  --since YYYY-MM-DD \
  --until YYYY-MM-DD \
  [--config-file path/to/config] \
  [--limit 1000] \
  [--dry-run]
{code}

---

h2. Commands

h3. fetch

Fetch indicators from a data source and insert into database.

*Arguments:*

| Argument | Required | Description | Example |
|----------|----------|-------------|---------|
| {{--data-source}} | Yes | Data source | {{bazaar}}, {{mwdb}} |
| {{--tags}} | Yes | Tags to query (repeatable) | {{--tags TrickBot --tags Emotet}} |
| {{--since}} | No | Start date/time | {{2025-01-01}} or ISO datetime |
| {{--until}} | No | End date/time | {{2025-01-31}} or ISO datetime |
| {{--limit}} | No | Max items per tag | Default: 1000 |
| {{--dry-run}} | No | Don't write to DB, print stats | Flag |
| {{--config-file}} | No | Config file path | {{./config/cli.env}} |

---

h2. Examples

h3. MalwareBazaar by Tags

{code:language=bash}
# Fetch TrickBot and Emotet samples from January 2025
python -m app.cli fetch \
  --data-source bazaar \
  --tags TrickBot,Emotet \
  --since 2025-01-01 \
  --until 2025-01-31
{code}

h3. MWDB with Config File

{code:language=bash}
# Use config file for auth and parameters
python -m app.cli fetch \
  --data-source mwdb \
  --tags malware,apt \
  --config-file ./config/cli.env
{code}

h3. Dry Run

{code:language=bash}
# Check what would be fetched without inserting
python -m app.cli fetch \
  --data-source bazaar \
  --tags Qakbot \
  --since 2025-01-01 \
  --dry-run
{code}

Output:
{code:language=json}
{
  "data_source": "bazaar",
  "tags": ["Qakbot"],
  "count": 523
}
{code}

---

h2. Configuration File

h3. Format

Supports JSON ({{.json}}) or KEY=VALUE ({{.env}}) format:

{code:language=bash}
# config/cli.env
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:pass@localhost:5432/iocdb
TAGS=TrickBot,Emotet
SINCE=2025-01-01
UNTIL=2025-01-31
MALWAREBAZAAR_API_URL=https://mb-api.abuse.ch/api/v1/
ABUSECH_AUTH_KEY=your-key
MWDB_URL=https://mwdb.cert.pl
MWDB_AUTH_KEY=your-key
{code}

h3. Supported Keys

* {{DATABASE_URL}} - PostgreSQL connection string
* {{TAGS}} - Comma-separated tags
* {{SINCE}} - Start date (YYYY-MM-DD or ISO)
* {{UNTIL}} - End date (YYYY-MM-DD or ISO)
* {{MALWAREBAZAAR_API_URL}} - MalwareBazaar API endpoint
* {{ABUSECH_AUTH_KEY}} - Shared abuse.ch API key (used by MalwareBazaar too)
* {{MWDB_URL}} - MWDB instance URL
* {{MWDB_AUTH_KEY}} - MWDB API key

h3. Precedence

# *CLI flags* - Highest priority
# *Config file* - Via {{--config-file}}
# *Environment variables* - Lowest priority (DATABASE_URL only)

---

h2. Output

h3. Success

{code:language=json}
{
  "data_source": "bazaar",
  "tags": ["TrickBot", "Emotet"],
  "ingested": 150,
  "updated": 23,
  "total_rows": 173
}
{code}

h3. Error

{code:language=none}
SystemExit: No tags provided. Use --tags or TAGS in --config-file.
{code}

---

h2. Database Requirements

h3. Schema

The CLI requires the {{ti}} schema with {{indicators}} table:

{code:language=sql}
-- Must exist before running CLI
CREATE SCHEMA ti;
CREATE TABLE ti.indicators (...);
{code}

See [database.md|database.md] for full schema.

h3. Connection

{code:language=bash}
# Via environment variable
export DATABASE_URL='postgresql://user:pass@host:5432/db'

# Via config file
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:pass@host:5432/db

# Both work, environment has priority
{code}

---

h2. Integration

h3. Scheduled Ingestion

{code:language=bash}
#!/bin/bash
# /etc/cron.d/ioc-ingest
# Run daily at 2 AM

0 2 * * * user cd /app && \
  python -m app.cli fetch \
    --data-source bazaar \
    --tags TrickBot,Emotet \
    --since $(date -d '7 days ago' +\%Y-\%m-\%d) \
    --config-file /app/config/cli.env
{code}

h3. CI/CD Pipeline

{code:language=yaml}
# .gitlab-ci.yml
ingest_iocs:
  stage: deploy
  script:
    - python -m app.cli fetch
        --data-source mwdb
        --tags ${IOC_TAGS}
        --since ${START_DATE}
        --config-file ./config/prod.env
  only:
    - schedules
{code}

---

h2. Error Handling

h3. Connection Errors

{code:language=python}
# API unreachable
requests.exceptions.ConnectionError

# Database unreachable
psycopg2.OperationalError
{code}

h3. Authentication Errors

{code:language=python}
# Invalid API key
requests.exceptions.HTTPError: 401 Unauthorized

# Database auth failed
psycopg2.OperationalError: password authentication failed
{code}

h3. Data Errors

{code:language=python}
# Invalid date format
ValueError: time data '2025/01/01' does not match format

# Empty result
# Returns success with count: 0
{code}

---

h2. Limitations

* *Worker auto-update exists* - CLI is still useful for ad-hoc/manual ingestion and one-off backfills
* *Tag-based only* - Cannot query by hash or other fields
* *Rate limits* - Subject to API provider limits
* *No streaming* - Loads all results in memory
* *Single-threaded* - One source at a time

---

h2. See Also

* [Data Sources|data-sources.md] - Source details and API formats
* [Configuration|configuration.md] - Environment variables
* [Database|database.md] - Schema and tables
