h1. Performance

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: Benchmarking methods and performance tuning.\\
Source file: {code}docs/performance.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-03-03 09:11:26Z
{info}

h2. Content

Status: updated for 1.1.x (2026-02-26).

h2. Scope

M12 introduces:
* Benchmark harness for mixed API traffic ({{scripts/benchmark_m12.py}})
* SLO-oriented latency/error budget targets
* Degradation handling for cache failures (serve from DB path)
* Alert rules and dashboard templates for ongoing operations

h2. SLO Targets

Service-level targets for production baseline:

* Availability: {{>= 99.9%}} successful responses (non-5xx)
* Error budget: {{<= 1%}} 5xx over 5-minute windows
* Latency:
* p50 {{< 150 ms}}
* p95 {{< 500 ms}}
* p99 {{< 1000 ms}}
* Cache stability: cache access error rate {{< 1 req/s}} sustained

Notes:
* Targets apply to mixed traffic profile (not only {{/health}}).
* Endpoint-specific targets can be stricter for cached endpoints.

h2. Benchmark Harness

Run benchmark against local stack:

{code:language=bash}
sudo RATE_LIMITS_ENABLED=false docker compose up -d postgres redis app
python scripts/benchmark_m12.py \
  --base-url http://127.0.0.1:8080 \
  --duration 30 \
  --concurrency 64 \
  --output-json /tmp/m12-benchmark.json
{code}

Default traffic profile:
* {{/health}}
* {{/metrics}}
* {{/indicators?limit=100&offset=0}}
* {{/indicators/json?type=ip&limit=500&offset=0}}
* {{/correlations?min_sources=2&limit=100}}

The tool returns:
* total throughput (req/s)
* error rate
* p50/p95/p99 latency
* per-endpoint breakdown

M14 suite with 3 runs and median summary:

{code:language=bash}
python scripts/benchmark_suite_m14.py \
  --base-url http://127.0.0.1:8080 \
  --duration 20 \
  --concurrency 64 \
  --runs 3 \
  --output-dir /tmp/m14-suite
{code}

Scenarios in suite:
* {{mixed}}
* {{indicator_heavy}}
* {{control_light}}

h2. Docker Cluster Benchmark

To compare single-instance vs scaled app replicas in Docker:

{code:language=bash}
bash scripts/benchmark_cluster_m12.sh 4 20 64
{code}

Parameters:
* arg1: number of {{app}} replicas (default {{4}})
* arg2: benchmark duration seconds (default {{20}})
* arg3: concurrency (default {{64}})

Artifacts:
* {{/tmp/m12-baseline.json}}
* {{/tmp/m12-cluster.json}}
* {{/tmp/m12-cluster-summary.json}}

Implementation notes:
* Uses {{docker compose}} for shared dependencies ({{postgres}}, {{redis}}) and starts app replicas as separate containers in the same Docker network.
* Benchmark traffic is distributed across replica container IPs (client-side balancing).

h2. Entrypoint Switch

Container supports one-shot benchmark mode:

{code:language=bash}
docker compose run --rm -e BENCHMARK_BASE_URL=http://app:8080 app --benchmark
{code}

Supported env vars:
* {{BENCHMARK_BASE_URL}} (default: {{http://app:8080}})
* {{BENCHMARK_DURATION}} (default: {{30}})
* {{BENCHMARK_CONCURRENCY}} (default: {{64}})
* {{BENCHMARK_TIMEOUT}} (default: {{5}})
* {{BENCHMARK_OUTPUT_JSON}} (default: {{/tmp/m12-benchmark.json}})

h2. Degradation Behavior

If Redis cache is unavailable:
* {{/indicators}} and {{/indicators/<fmt>}} continue serving responses from DB path
* cache metric {{cache_access_total{status="error"}}} increases
* warning logs include {{cache_unavailable}} or {{cache_write_failed}}

h2. Monitoring Artifacts

* Alert rules: {{monitoring/alerts/m12-slo-alerts.yml}}
* Operations alerts: {{monitoring/alerts/m15-operations-alerts.yml}}
* Dashboard template: {{monitoring/grafana/m12-dashboard.json}}

Both artifacts are intentionally generic and can be imported into existing Prometheus/Grafana deployment.

h2. Operational Runbook

# Detect
* Check SLO alerts (error rate, p95 latency, cache error spike).
* Confirm affected endpoints via {{/metrics}}.

# Isolate
* Verify Redis health ({{PING}}, memory pressure, evictions).
* Verify DB latency and active connections.

# Mitigate
* Reduce worker pressure (temporary rate controls at edge).
* Scale app replicas horizontally.
* Disable expensive traffic patterns or reduce export limits temporarily.

# Recover
* Ensure cache error metric returns near zero.
* Validate latency returns below p95 target.
* Re-run benchmark profile to confirm recovery.

h2. M15 Release Gate

Local pre-merge gate:

{code:language=bash}
bash scripts/m15_premerge_gate.sh
{code}

Chaos fallback check:

{code:language=bash}
bash scripts/m15_chaos_check.sh
{code}
