h1. Maintenance Plan

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: Maintenance milestones and periodic tasks.\\
Source file: {code}docs/maintenance-plan.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-03-02 21:53:25Z
{info}

h2. Content

Status: updated for 1.1.x (2026-03-01).

h2. Horizon

Operational plan for the next 90 days after M16 completion.

h2. Weekly

# Review alerts:
* {{m12-slo-alerts.yml}}
* {{m15-operations-alerts.yml}}
# Check benchmark drift:
* run {{python scripts/benchmark_suite_m14.py --base-url http://127.0.0.1:8080 --duration 20 --concurrency 64 --runs 1}}
# Validate ingestion health:
* verify worker logs and source update freshness.
# Check job backlog:
* {{curl -s http://127.0.0.1:8080/metrics | grep -E "sync_jobs|export_jobs"}}
* If {{sync_jobs_queued}} > 10 for an extended period, restart the worker.

h2. Biweekly

# Run chaos check:
{code:language=bash}
bash scripts/m15_chaos_check.sh
{code}
# Review top latency contributors from {{/metrics}} ({{db_query_duration_seconds}}, endpoint p95/p99).

h2. Monthly

# Run release gate:
{code:language=bash}
bash scripts/m15_premerge_gate.sh
{code}
# Execute final readiness smoke:
{code:language=bash}
bash scripts/m16_release_readiness.sh
{code}
# Review dependencies and security advisories (including Dependabot findings).
# Validate {{MWDB_MY_GROUP}} configuration and confirm {{TLP:AMBER}} is being applied to
   indicators from that group (query: {{source:mwdb AND tlp:AMBER}}).

h2. Capacity Policy

* Baseline test profile: app constrained to {{4 vCPU / 12 GB RAM}}.
* Scale-up trigger:
* sustained mixed p95 > 350 ms for 30+ min, or
* sustained mixed throughput demand > 1100 req/s.
* First expansion step: {{+2 vCPU}}, then {{+8 GB RAM}} if memory pressure persists.

h2. KPI Targets

* mixed throughput: >= 700 req/s (gate threshold)
* mixed p95: <= 350 ms
* mixed error rate: <= 1%
* soak 180s error rate: 0%
