h1. M16 Finalization

{info:title=Documentation Metadata}
Purpose: Finalization checklist and readiness outcomes.\\
Source file: {code}docs/m16-finalization.md{code}\\
Generated (UTC): 2026-03-02 17:29:40Z
{info}

h2. Content

Status: updated for 1.1.x (2026-02-26).

h2. Scope Completed

* M14 performance/capacity tuning and benchmark suite.
* M15 operational hardening (release gate, chaos checks, runbook, CI gate).
* M16 closure package (readiness script, maintenance plan, backlog v2).

h2. Go / No-Go Checklist

# Tests pass ({{pytest -q}}): required
# Release gate passes ({{scripts/m15_premerge_gate.sh}}): required
# Chaos fallback check passes ({{scripts/m15_chaos_check.sh}}): required for production release
# M16 readiness report generated ({{scripts/m16_release_readiness.sh}}): required
# Documentation updated ({{configuration}}, {{performance}}, {{runbook}}, {{maintenance-plan}}): required

h2. Current Decision

* *GO (conditional)* for production-like rollout with current host budget ({{4 vCPU / 12 GB}} for app container test profile).

Conditions:
* Keep Redis and PostgreSQL healthy and monitored.
* Keep M15 gate in CI as mandatory check.
* Address known dependency vulnerabilities tracked by GitHub/Dependabot before public exposure increase.

h2. Residual Risks

# Tail latency under highly DB-heavy spikes ({{/indicators}} large limits) can still rise (p99).
# Upstream source instability can reduce feed freshness despite app health.
# Dependency vulnerabilities currently reported in default branch need remediation planning.

h2. Backlog v2 (Priority Order)

# Implement async export job for very large responses (queue + downloadable artifact).
# Introduce DB read replica routing for heavy read endpoints.
# Add authenticated access tier for {{/metrics}} and privileged exports.
# Expand chaos matrix (DB restart, packet loss, slow Redis).
# Add automatic weekly benchmark trend report persisted to artifacts.
# Add dark mode switch with preference persisted in browser local storage/cache.
# Unify all legacy and template UI pages under one shared layout/component system (single topbar, shared theme script, shared style tokens).
# Add robust table UX: explicit pagination controls (prev/next/page), total result count, and sticky filter summary for {{/indicators}}.
# Add structured validation and feedback states in admin forms (inline required-field errors, success toasts, actionable sync-block reasons).
# Improve accessibility to WCAG 2.1 AA baseline (consistent focus states, aria-live status updates, contrast audit, keyboard-first interactions).
# Add responsive/mobile-optimized data views (card/list fallback for tables, horizontal overflow affordances, touch-friendly action sizing).

h2. Roadmap v2 Implementation Status (2026-02-26)

# Implemented async export jobs with generated downloadable artifacts ({{/export-jobs/<job_id>}}).
# Implemented read-replica aware DB routing for read-heavy operations ({{DATABASE_READ_URL}} support).
# Implemented optional authenticated {{/metrics}} access via bearer token ({{METRICS_AUTH_TOKEN}}).
# Expanded chaos checks to include DB restart, Redis pause/slow simulation, and optional packet-loss simulation.
# Implemented weekly benchmark trend artifact generation ({{make benchmark-weekly}}).
# Implemented dark mode persistence with shared theme storage key ({{localStorage}}).
# Unified global topbar/navigation and theme controls across legacy UI pages.
# Added pagination controls, result counts, and sticky filter summary for {{/indicators}}.
# Added improved admin form feedback, readiness gating, and clearer configuration state.
# Added accessibility upgrades (live regions, improved focus handling, keyboard-first actions).
# Added responsive/mobile table behavior and compact view adaptations.
